README.md, before:

# API REST application

```
api-rest-sb3
|__ src
    |__ main
    |    |__ java
    |        |__ com.sb3.apirestsb3
    |            |__ DAO
    |            |   |__ CharacterDAO.java
    |            |
    |            |__ Entity
    |            |   |__ CharacterEntity.java
    |            |
    |            |__ REST
    |            |   |__ CharacterREST.java
    |            |
    |            |__ Service
    |                |__ CharacterService.java
    |__ resources
        |__ application.properties
```

### Application Structure

See more about **[Three-Tier Architecture](https://www.ibm.com/topics/three-tier-architecture)**.

1 - Presentation Layer:
* ```CharacterREST.java```: HTTP requests.

2 - Business Layer:
* ```CharacterService.java```: Logic of application methods.

3 - Data Layer:
* ```CharacterDAO.java```: Access the database.
* ```CharacterEntity.java```: Represent the database informations.

4 - Others files:
* ```application.properties```: Application settings file.

## Database

You can use ```PostgreSQL``` or ```MySQL```, so follow the steps:

1 - Go to ```application.properties``` and insert the lines
```
# PostgreSQL
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/database-name
spring.datasource.username=postgres
spring.datasource.password=
spring.datasource.driver-class-name=org.postgresql.Driver

# MySQL
spring.datasource.mysql.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/database-name
spring.datasource.mysql.username=root
spring.datasource.mysql.password=
spring.datasource.mysql.driver-class-name=com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver
```

2 - Create a database with the name that you desire (it needs be the same configured in ```application.properties```)

3 - Create a table called ```characters``` (the table name is configured in ```CharacterEntity.java```), then insert this code snippet to speed up the process.

```
-- PostgreSQL
CREATE TABLE characters (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
    race VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    gender VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    type_class VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    age INT NOT NULL,
    height DECIMAL(3,2) NOT NULL,
    element VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    origin VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    weapon VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    alignment VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    alive BOOLEAN NOT NULL,
    deleted_at TIMESTAMP
);

-- MySQL
CREATE TABLE characters (
    id PRIMARY KEY NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    name VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
    race VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    gender VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    type_class VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    age INT NOT NULL,
    height DECIMAL(3,2) NOT NULL,
    element VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    origin VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    weapon VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    alignment VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    alive BOOLEAN NOT NULL,
    deleted_at TIMESTAMP
);

-- Insert lines
INSERT INTO characters (name, race, gender, type_class, age, height, element, origin, weapon, alignment, alive) 
VALUES
('Mardek Innanu El-Enkidu', 'Human', 'Male', 'Recruit', 18, 1.78, 'Light', 'Goznor', 'Sword', 'Lawful Good', true),
('Deugan Selmae Eh-Deredu', 'Human', 'Male', 'Recruit', 18, 1.77, 'Earth', 'Goznor', 'Greatsword', 'Neutral Good', true),
('Emela Andra Wu-Jardu', 'Human', 'Female', 'Elemance', 18, 1.75, 'Water', 'Water Temple', 'Rod', 'Lawful Neutral', true),
('Vehrn Juonour El-Ganobyi', 'Human', 'Male', 'Paladin', 25, 1.77, 'Light', 'Belfan', 'Sword', 'Lawful Good', true);
```

## API REST Address 

Go for some API Client tool to perform the API testing, use [POSTMAN](https://www.postman.com/) for example.

**GET: localhost:8080/api/character**
```
// Response
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Mardek Innanu El-Enkidu",
    "race": "Human",
    "gender": "Male",
    "type_class": "Recruit",
    "age": 18,
    "height": 1.78,
    "element": "Light",
    "origin": "Goznor",
    "weapon": "Sword",
    "alignment": "Lawful Good",
    "alive": true,
    "deleted_at": null
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "name": "Deugan Selmae Eh-Deredu",
    "race": "Human",
    "gender": "Male",
    "type_class": "Recruit",
    "age": 18,
    "height": 1.77,
    "element": "Earth",
    "origin": "Goznor",
    "weapon": "Greatsword",
    "alignment": "Neutral Good",
    "alive": true,
    "deleted_at": null
  },
  {
    "id": 3,
    "name": "Emela Andra Wu-Jardu",
    "race": "Human",
    "gender": "Female",
    "type_class": "Elemance",
    "age": 18,
    "height": 1.75,
    "element": "Water",
    "origin": "Water Temple",
    "weapon": "Rod",
    "alignment": "Lawful Neutral",
    "alive": true,
    "deleted_at": null
  },
  {
    "id": 4,
    "name": "Vehrn Juonour El-Ganobyi",
    "race": "Human",
    "gender": "Male",
    "type_class": "Paladin",
    "age": 25,
    "height": 1.77,
    "element": "Light",
    "origin": "Belfan",
    "weapon": "Sword",
    "alignment": "Lawful Good",
    "alive": true,
    "deleted_at": null
  }
]
```

**POST: localhost:8080/api/character**
```
// JSON Content
{
  "name": "Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha",
  "race": "Human",
  "gender": "Female",
  "type_class": "Youngling",
  "age": 14,
  "height": 1.61,
  "element": "Water",
  "origin": "Canonia",
  "weapon": "Harp",
  "alignment": "Chaotic Neutral",
  "alive": true
}

// Response
{
  "id": 5,
  "name": "Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha",
  "race": "Human",
  "gender": "Female",
  "type_class": "Youngling",
  "age": 14,
  "height": 1.61,
  "element": "Water",
  "origin": "Canonia",
  "weapon": "Harp",
  "alignment": "Chaotic Neutral",
  "alive": true,
  "deleted_at": null
}
```

**GET: localhost:8080/api/character/id**
```
// Response
{
  "id": 5,
  "name": "Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha",
  "race": "Human",
  "gender": "Female",
  "type_class": "Youngling",
  "age": 14,
  "height": 1.61,
  "element": "Water",
  "origin": "Canonia",
  "weapon": "Harp",
  "alignment": "Chaotic Neutral",
  "alive": true,
  "deleted_at": null
}
```

**GET: localhost:8080/api/character/search?name=El-Enkidu**
```
// Response
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Mardek Innanu El-Enkidu",
    "race": "Human",
    "gender": "Male",
    "type_class": "Recruit",
    "age": 18,
    "height": 1.78,
    "element": "Light",
    "origin": "Goznor",
    "weapon": "Sword",
    "alignment": "Lawful Good",
    "alive": true,
    "deleted_at": null
  }
]
```

**PUT: localhost:8080/api/character/id**
```
// JSON Content
{
  "name": "Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha",
  "race": "Human",
  "gender": "Female",
  "type_class": "Youngling",
  "age": 14,
  "height": 1.65, // I changed 1.61 m to 1.65 m
  "element": "Water",
  "origin": "Canonia",
  "weapon": "Harp",
  "alignment": "Chaotic Neutral",
  "alive": true
}

// Response
{
  "id": 5,
  "name": "Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha",
  "race": "Human",
  "gender": "Female",
  "type_class": "Youngling",
  "age": 14,
  "height": 1.65,
  "element": "Water",
  "origin": "Canonia",
  "weapon": "Harp",
  "alignment": "Chaotic Neutral",
  "alive": true,
  "deleted_at": null
}
```

**GET: localhost:8080/api/trash-character/id**
```
// Response
Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha is at trash.
```

**GET: localhost:8080/api/character-trash**
```
// Response
[
  {
    "id": 5,
    "name": "Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha",
    "race": "Human",
    "gender": "Female",
    "type_class": "Youngling",
    "age": 14,
    "height": 1.65,
    "element": "Water",
    "origin": "Canonia",
    "weapon": "Harp",
    "alignment": "Chaotic Neutral",
    "alive": true,
    "deleted_at": "2024-04-20T09:42:07.913076" 
  }
]
```

**GET: localhost:8080/api/character/search-trash?name=Sirene**
```
// Response
[
  {
    "id": 5,
    "name": "Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha",
    "race": "Human",
    "gender": "Female",
    "type_class": "Youngling",
    "age": 14,
    "height": 1.61,
    "element": "Water",
    "origin": "Canonia",
    "weapon": "Harp",
    "alignment": "Chaotic Neutral",
    "alive": true,
    "deleted_at": "2024-04-20T09:42:07.913076"
  }
]
```

**GET: localhost:8080/api/restore-character-trash/id**
```
// Response
Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha went restored.
```

**DELETE: localhost:8080/api/character-delete/id**
```
// Response
Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha went deleted successfully.
```

### Reference
- **[Mardek](https://figverse.fandom.com/wiki/MARDEK_(Series))**

Commit message:

Fix: Changing READM.md because database settings.

README.md, after:

# API REST application (map)

```
api-rest-sb3
|__ src
    |__ main
    |    |__ java
    |        |__ com.sb3.apirestsb3
    |            |__ DAO
    |            |   |__ CharacterDAO.java
    |            |
    |            |__ Entity
    |            |   |__ CharacterEntity.java
    |            |
    |            |__ REST
    |            |   |__ CharacterREST.java
    |            |
    |            |__ Service
    |                |__ CharacterService.java
    |__ resources
        |__ application.properties
```

### Application structure pattern

See more about **[Three-Tier Architecture](https://www.ibm.com/topics/three-tier-architecture)**.

1 - Presentation Layer:
* ```CharacterREST.java```: HTTP requests.

2 - Business Layer:
* ```CharacterService.java```: Logic of application methods.

3 - Data Layer:
* ```CharacterDAO.java```: Access the database.
* ```CharacterEntity.java```: Represent the database informations.

4 - Others files:
* ```application.properties```: Application settings file.

## Database

You can use ```PostgreSQL``` or ```MySQL``` database, so follow the steps:

1 - Go to ```application.properties``` and insert the lines (Check the database name, user and password of your preference)
```
# PostgreSQL
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/database-name
spring.datasource.username=postgres
spring.datasource.password=
spring.datasource.driver-class-name=org.postgresql.Driver

# MySQL
spring.datasource.mysql.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/database-name
spring.datasource.mysql.username=root
spring.datasource.mysql.password=
spring.datasource.mysql.driver-class-name=com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver
```

2 - Create a database with the name that you desire (it needs be the same configured in ```application.properties```)

3 - Create a table called ```characters``` (the table name is configured in ```CharacterEntity.java```), then insert this code snippet to speed up the process.

```
-- PostgreSQL
CREATE TABLE characters (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
    race VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    gender VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    type_class VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    age INT NOT NULL,
    height DECIMAL(3,2) NOT NULL,
    element VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    origin VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    weapon VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    alignment VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    alive BOOLEAN NOT NULL,
    deleted_at TIMESTAMP
);

-- MySQL
CREATE TABLE characters (
    id PRIMARY KEY NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    name VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
    race VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    gender VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    type_class VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    age INT NOT NULL,
    height DECIMAL(3,2) NOT NULL,
    element VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    origin VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    weapon VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    alignment VARCHAR(15) NOT NULL,
    alive BOOLEAN NOT NULL,
    deleted_at TIMESTAMP
);

-- Insert lines
INSERT INTO characters (name, race, gender, type_class, age, height, element, origin, weapon, alignment, alive) 
VALUES
('Mardek Innanu El-Enkidu', 'Human', 'Male', 'Recruit', 18, 1.78, 'Light', 'Goznor', 'Sword', 'Lawful Good', true),
('Deugan Selmae Eh-Deredu', 'Human', 'Male', 'Recruit', 18, 1.77, 'Earth', 'Goznor', 'Greatsword', 'Neutral Good', true),
('Emela Andra Wu-Jardu', 'Human', 'Female', 'Elemance', 18, 1.75, 'Water', 'Water Temple', 'Rod', 'Lawful Neutral', true),
('Vehrn Juonour El-Ganobyi', 'Human', 'Male', 'Paladin', 25, 1.77, 'Light', 'Belfan', 'Sword', 'Lawful Good', true);
```

## API REST Address 

Go for some API Client tool to perform the API testing, you can use [POSTMAN](https://www.postman.com/) for example.

**GET: localhost:8080/api/character**
```
// Response
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Mardek Innanu El-Enkidu",
    "race": "Human",
    "gender": "Male",
    "type_class": "Recruit",
    "age": 18,
    "height": 1.78,
    "element": "Light",
    "origin": "Goznor",
    "weapon": "Sword",
    "alignment": "Lawful Good",
    "alive": true,
    "deleted_at": null
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "name": "Deugan Selmae Eh-Deredu",
    "race": "Human",
    "gender": "Male",
    "type_class": "Recruit",
    "age": 18,
    "height": 1.77,
    "element": "Earth",
    "origin": "Goznor",
    "weapon": "Greatsword",
    "alignment": "Neutral Good",
    "alive": true,
    "deleted_at": null
  },
  {
    "id": 3,
    "name": "Emela Andra Wu-Jardu",
    "race": "Human",
    "gender": "Female",
    "type_class": "Elemance",
    "age": 18,
    "height": 1.75,
    "element": "Water",
    "origin": "Water Temple",
    "weapon": "Rod",
    "alignment": "Lawful Neutral",
    "alive": true,
    "deleted_at": null
  },
  {
    "id": 4,
    "name": "Vehrn Juonour El-Ganobyi",
    "race": "Human",
    "gender": "Male",
    "type_class": "Paladin",
    "age": 25,
    "height": 1.77,
    "element": "Light",
    "origin": "Belfan",
    "weapon": "Sword",
    "alignment": "Lawful Good",
    "alive": true,
    "deleted_at": null
  }
]
```

**POST: localhost:8080/api/character**
```
// JSON Content
{
  "name": "Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha",
  "race": "Human",
  "gender": "Female",
  "type_class": "Youngling",
  "age": 14,
  "height": 1.61,
  "element": "Water",
  "origin": "Canonia",
  "weapon": "Harp",
  "alignment": "Chaotic Neutral",
  "alive": true
}

// Response
{
  "id": 5,
  "name": "Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha",
  "race": "Human",
  "gender": "Female",
  "type_class": "Youngling",
  "age": 14,
  "height": 1.61,
  "element": "Water",
  "origin": "Canonia",
  "weapon": "Harp",
  "alignment": "Chaotic Neutral",
  "alive": true,
  "deleted_at": null
}
```

**GET: localhost:8080/api/character/id**
```
// Response
{
  "id": 5,
  "name": "Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha",
  "race": "Human",
  "gender": "Female",
  "type_class": "Youngling",
  "age": 14,
  "height": 1.61,
  "element": "Water",
  "origin": "Canonia",
  "weapon": "Harp",
  "alignment": "Chaotic Neutral",
  "alive": true,
  "deleted_at": null
}
```

**GET: localhost:8080/api/character/search?name=El-Enkidu**
```
// Response
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "name": "Mardek Innanu El-Enkidu",
    "race": "Human",
    "gender": "Male",
    "type_class": "Recruit",
    "age": 18,
    "height": 1.78,
    "element": "Light",
    "origin": "Goznor",
    "weapon": "Sword",
    "alignment": "Lawful Good",
    "alive": true,
    "deleted_at": null
  }
]
```

**PUT: localhost:8080/api/character/id**
```
// JSON Content
{
  "name": "Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha",
  "race": "Human",
  "gender": "Female",
  "type_class": "Youngling",
  "age": 14,
  "height": 1.65, // I changed 1.61 m to 1.65 m
  "element": "Water",
  "origin": "Canonia",
  "weapon": "Harp",
  "alignment": "Chaotic Neutral",
  "alive": true
}

// Response
{
  "id": 5,
  "name": "Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha",
  "race": "Human",
  "gender": "Female",
  "type_class": "Youngling",
  "age": 14,
  "height": 1.65,
  "element": "Water",
  "origin": "Canonia",
  "weapon": "Harp",
  "alignment": "Chaotic Neutral",
  "alive": true,
  "deleted_at": null
}
```

**GET: localhost:8080/api/trash-character/id**
```
// Response
Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha is at trash.
```

**GET: localhost:8080/api/character-trash**
```
// Response
[
  {
    "id": 5,
    "name": "Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha",
    "race": "Human",
    "gender": "Female",
    "type_class": "Youngling",
    "age": 14,
    "height": 1.65,
    "element": "Water",
    "origin": "Canonia",
    "weapon": "Harp",
    "alignment": "Chaotic Neutral",
    "alive": true,
    "deleted_at": "2024-04-20T09:42:07.913076" 
  }
]
```

**GET: localhost:8080/api/character/search-trash?name=Sirene**
```
// Response
[
  {
    "id": 5,
    "name": "Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha",
    "race": "Human",
    "gender": "Female",
    "type_class": "Youngling",
    "age": 14,
    "height": 1.61,
    "element": "Water",
    "origin": "Canonia",
    "weapon": "Harp",
    "alignment": "Chaotic Neutral",
    "alive": true,
    "deleted_at": "2024-04-20T09:42:07.913076"
  }
]
```

**GET: localhost:8080/api/restore-character-trash/id**
```
// Response
Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha went restored.
```

**DELETE: localhost:8080/api/character-delete/id**
```
// Response
Elwyen Sirene Wu-Nympha went deleted successfully.
```

### Reference
- **[Mardek](https://figverse.fandom.com/wiki/MARDEK_(Series))**
